# Computer Graphic Project: Visualizes a 3D scene as viewed from a 2D Canvas
## Synopsis
* For this project, write a program that visualizes a 3D scene, as viewed form a movable camera, and use 2D Canvas drawing operations to construct a 2D projected view of it on your screen.
## Learning Objective
* To familiarize yourselves with the 3D viewing transform pipeline, especially thetransforms that relate the camera coordinate system with the world coordinates, and the projection transforms.
## Description
* Create a complex hierarchical object that uses 3-D motion and transforms!
* Have objects “fly along” complex 3D curves, in ways that control their position and orientation in intricate ways. Think, for example, of an airplane that does a banked turn along a spiral-shaped path ...
* Think about the possibility of having solid-drawn (filled) polygons “hide” each other, if they happento be in front of one another. For example, think of a cube made up of six square faces; from any vantage point, we should only be able to see three of the six faces (the other three are hidden behind the visible ones). Here’s a thought to consider: you could associate a“normal/perpendicular” vector with each face of such a polyhedron, and ask yourself how this vector is transformed in Camera Coordinates. If the normal vector points towards the camera, maybe this is a “visible” polygon. If it points away, maybe it should be “hidden” (i.e. not drawn).
* The general idea was to construct and apply the transforms of a 3D Viewing Pipeline to 3D dimensional points, in such a way as to compute their corresponding canvas/viewport coordinates, that would allow us to “draw” a three-dimensional line/shape/polygon, by essentially drawing the same type of geometric shape but using the projected points onto 2D canvas (i.e. “viewport”) coordinates.
* Where a moving camera is hovering over our 3D world, and creating a projection that corresponds to its own vantage point, which is visualized in a separate window. It clearly demonstrates all transforms involved in the 3D viewing pipeline (model,lookAt, projection, and viewport transforms). We will create a visualizationsimilar to the “camera” view of this example (the window on the right) where we visualize what the camera “sees” from its vantage point.
* **Feature #1.** It will have a movable camera. The motion can either be automatic, or triggered by manipulation of a slider. It is ok for the motion of the camera to be relatively simple (i.e. translation along a line, or motion along a curve).
* **Feature #2.** Your 3D world must include a hierarchical model, or a parametric curve (or both!).
* **Feature #3.** Project should make it apparent that you are observing a 3D scene, as opposed to a 2D object. For example, if you drew everything in the 2D plane (just replacing every coordinate (x,y) with a triple (x,y,0) to “make it 3D”), and just translated the entire drawing up/down(to emulate “moving the camera”), this is really just a 2D drawing exercise, not something that feels like 3D. Having the camera “spin around” an object, having a 3D (non-planar) parametric curve, or having a 3D object are good possibilities for showing off the 3D nature of program.
* **Feature #4.** You need to use aprojection transform. It can be either orthographic or perspective and implemented via glMatrix.